Begin with the artifact, not the activity.
Help with this project” describes effort.
Produce a decision memo comparing the three launch options” describes something another person can review and use.
OpenAI's examples include briefs, summaries, decks, workbooks, plans, process documents, daily updates, launch kits, financial reviews, and workflow audits.
These are useful because each one has a visible shape and a next decision attached to it.
Name the artifact in operational terms.
State who will use it, what decision or action it supports, and what state counts as a first usable version.
A first version is not final, but it must be complete enough to reveal missing facts and weak reasoning.
Separate the deliverable from the larger goal.
Improve customer retention” is a goal.
A cohort analysis with three prioritized hypotheses, supporting evidence, and owners is an artifact that can move that goal forward.
Use a verb plus an object plus a decision.
Draft the weekly operating brief so team leads can identify blocked work.
Build the launch checklist so the release owner can approve or stop the rollout.
Turn scattered research into a comparison table so the buyer can choose.
The common failure is requesting motion without defining completion.
The agent searches, summarizes, and writes, but neither side knows when the task is done.
A named artifact creates an end state and gives every later constraint a place to attach.
First, define a concrete artifact before describing the work.
Second, connect that artifact to a real user and decision.
Third, make the first version usable enough to expose what is missing.